Docs for memory-backed API. (#895)
man-group/ArcticDB: docs/mkdocs/docs/tutorials/lmdb_and_in_memory.md

# LMDB and In-Memory storage backends

ArcticDB can use a file-based LMDB backend, or a RAM-based in-memory storage, as alternatives to object storage such as S3 and Azure.

Two simple examples are shown below.

Note that this example writes to `test.lmdb` in the working directory.

```py
from arcticdb import Arctic
import pandas as pd

ac_lmdb = Arctic('lmdb://test.lmdb')
lib = ac_lmdb.get_library('lib', create_if_missing=True)
lib.write('symbol', pd.DataFrame({'a': [1, 2, 3]})
print(lib.read('symbol').data)
```

which gives:

```py
   a
0  1
1  2
2  3
```

The equivalent instantiation for an in-memory store uses the URI `'mem://'` as in:

```py
ac_mem = Arctic('mem://')
```

The storage returned is owned by the `ac_mem` instance and lives for the lifetime of this Python object. Behind the
scenes, a [Folly Concurrent Hash Map](https://github.com/facebook/folly/blob/main/folly/concurrency/ConcurrentHashMap.h)
is used as the key/value store. For test cases and experimentation, the in-memory backend is a good option.

> On the other hand, if the datasets are too large for RAM, or multiple processes want concurrent access to the same data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple processes want concurrent access to the same data, then we recommend using LMDB over a tmpfs.
```

then LMDB is recommended.

> ## How to handle concurrent writers?

Reviewer: I think we should focus this page on using ArcticDB with in-memory backends. Hence below we should be showing how to set up a tmpfs and run ArcticDB over it, and demonstrating that concurrent access works. I think we can skip the section describing LMDB over an on-disk filesystem.

Author: I've kept the snippet for how to connect to an `lmdb` endpoint because I think this is useful for also explaining the `mem://` syntax afterwards. I've changed it to the tmpfs case though so it fits the title of the guide. For most users they will likely visit this page and leave once they see that they can use `mem://`, I'd imagine.

> Again, it should be notes that ArcticDB achieves its highest performance and scale when configured with an object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, it should be noted that ArcticDB achieves its highest performance and scale when configured with an object
```

One possible speed up is to use LMDB over [tmpfs](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/filesystems/tmpfs.html).

On Linux, the steps to setting this up are:

```bash
$ mkdir ./tmpfs_mount_point
$ sudo mount -t tmpfs -o size=1g tmpfs tmpfs_mount_point
```

And we can inspect that it is there with:

```
$ df -h
Filesystem               Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
tmpfs                    1.0G     0  1.0G   0% /somedir/tmpfs_mount_point
```

From ArcticDB you can connect to this filesystem with LMDB as you would usually.

### Is it any faster?

See the timing results below and the Appendix for the code to generate this data. The differences are not huge with
tmpfs out-performing disk only for symbol writing operations. Nevertheless, tmpfs is clearly a better option for an
ephemeral LMDB backend. We can also see that the in-memory store is significantly faster across the board as would
be expected.

![](/images/LMDBtmpfsDiskMemSpeeds.png)

Note: the ranges are 95% confidence intervals based on five repeats for each data size. The hardware limits are for
writing to disk (not tmpfs) using the `np.save` and `np.load` functions. No data was sought for the RAM's hardware
limit.

> ### Attempts to measure hardware limits using `fio`

Author: Moved to Wiki page here: https://github.com/man-group/ArcticDB/wiki/Performance-test-code-and-determining-theoretical-maximum-read-write-speeds
